The Potsdam Commentary Corpus
A corpus of German newspaper commentaries has been assembled and annotated with different information (and currently, to different degrees): part-of-speech, syntax, rhetorical structure, connectives, co-reference, and information structure.
The paper explains the design decisions taken in the annotations, and describes a number of applications using this corpus with its multi-layer annotation.
A corpus of German newspaper commentaries has been assembled at Potsdam University, and annotated with different linguistic information, to different degrees.
Two aspects of the corpus have been presented in previous papers ((Re- itter, Stede 2003) on underspecified rhetorical structure; (Stede 2003) on the perspective of knowledge-based summarization).
This paper, however, provides a comprehensive overview of the data collection effort and its current state.
At present, the ‘Potsdam Commentary Corpus’ (henceforth ‘PCC’ for short) consists of 170 commentaries from Ma¨rkische Allgemeine Zeitung, a German regional daily.
The choice of the genre commentary resulted from the fact that an investigation of rhetorical structure, its interaction with other aspects of discourse structure, and the prospects for its automatic derivation are the key motivations for building up the corpus.
Commentaries argue in favor of a specific point of view toward some political issue, often dicussing yet dismissing other points of view; therefore, they typically offer a more interesting rhetorical structure than, say, narrative text or other portions of newspapers.
The corpus has been annotated with six different types of information, which are characterized in the following subsections.
Not all the layers have been produced for all the texts yet.
We follow the guidelines developed in the TIGER project (Brants et al. 2002) for syntactic annotation of German newspaper text, using the Annotate3 tool for interactive construction of tree structures.
All commentaries have been annotated with rhetorical structure, using RSTTool4 and the definitions of discourse relations provided by Rhetorical Structure Theory (Mann, Thompson 1988).
For the ‘core’ portion of PCC, we found that on average, 35% of the coherence relations in our RST annotations are explicitly signalled by a lexical connective.6 When adding the fact that connectives are often ambiguous, one has to conclude that prospects for an automatic analysis of rhetorical structure using shallow methods (i.e., relying largely on connectives) are not bright — but see Sections 3.2 and 3.3 below.
Thus it is possible, for illustration, to look for a noun phrase (syntax tier) marked as topic (information structure tier) that is in a bridging relation (co-reference tier) to some other noun phrase.
That is, we can use the discourse parser on PCC texts, emulating for instance a “co-reference oracle” that adds the information from our co-reference annotations.